feat(curriculum): add react basics review (#57360)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/review-react-basics/67487e141bb6a7140a352e12.md

---
id: 67487e141bb6a7140a352e12
title: React Basics Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-react-basics
---

# --description--

## JavaScript Libraries and Frameworks

- JavaScript libraries and frameworks offer quick solutions to common problems and speed up development by providing pre-built code.
- Libraries are generally more focused on providing solutions to specific tasks, such as manipulating the DOM, handling events, or managing AJAX requests. 
- A couple of examples of JavaScript libraries are jQuery and React.
- Frameworks, on the other hand, provide a more defined structure for building applications. They often come with a set of rules and conventions that developers need to follow.
- Examples of frameworks include Angular and Next.js.

> - **Single page applications**(SPAs) are web applications that load a single HTML page and dynamically update that page as the user interacts with the application without reloading the entire page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Single page applications** (SPAs) are web applications that load a single HTML page and dynamically update that page as the user interacts with the application without reloading the entire page.
```

- SPAs use JavaScript to manage the application's state and render content. This is often done using frameworks which provide great tools for building complex user interfaces.
- Some issues surrounding SPAs include:

  - Screen readers struggle with dynamically updated content.
  - The URL does not change when the user navigates within the application, which can make it difficult to bookmark, backtrack or share specific pages.
  - Initial load time can be slow if the application is large as all the assets need to be loaded upfront.

## React

- React is a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces and web applications.

> - A core concept of React is creation of reusable UI components that can update and render independently as data changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A core concept of React is the creation of reusable UI components that can update and render independently as data changes.
```

---

> id: 67487e141bb6a7140a352e12

Reviewer 2: We also need to add the section for imports and exports because that script was added a few days ago

Reviewer 3: added

title: React Basics Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-react-basics
---

# --description--

## JavaScript Libraries and Frameworks

- JavaScript libraries and frameworks offer quick solutions to common problems and speed up development by providing pre-built code.
- Libraries are generally more focused on providing solutions to specific tasks, such as manipulating the DOM, handling events, or managing AJAX requests. 
- An example of a JavaScript library is jQuery.
- Frameworks, on the other hand, provide a more defined structure for building applications. They often come with a set of rules and conventions that developers need to follow.

> - Examples of frameworks include Angular and React.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think this review page was created before the technical reviews were done for the react scripts. I think in the script it mentions other examples of frameworks. So we should just list the ones from the script.

> - Examples of frameworks include Angular and React.

Reviewer 4: Sure. These are all slightly fuzzy terms and some people do call React a framework, but if there are more clear-cut examples, that's great.

> - Examples of frameworks include Angular and React.

Reviewer 2: I updated the script to mention NextJS too since it hasn't been recorded yet

> - **Single page applications**(SPAs) are web applications that load a single HTML page and dynamically update that page as the user interacts with the application without reloading the entire page.

Reviewer 2: We never officially discussed this but there is a difference in formatting here between the different review pages.
Since we will have different team members in 2025 working on these pages there should be a consensus.

Do we want just bullet points?
Or the way it was originally setup? 

```md
- **topic**: placeholder
```

- SPAs use JavaScript to manage the application's state and render content. This is often done using frameworks like React, Vue, or Angular, which provide great tools for building complex user interfaces.
- Some issues surrounding SPAs include:

  - Screenreaders struggle struggle with dynamicaaly updated content.
  - The URL does not change when the user navigates within the application, which can make it difficult to bookmark, backtrack or share specific pages.
  - Initial load time can be slow if the application is large as all the assets need to be loaded upfront.

> ## React- a JavaScript library for building user interfaces

Reviewer 2: I vote we simplify this 

```suggestion
## React
```

- React is a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces and web applications.
- A core concept of React is creation of reusable UI components that can update and render independently as data changes.
- React allows developers to describe how the UI should look like based on the application state. React then updates and renders the right components when the data or the state changes.

## React Components

- Components are the building blocks of React applications that allow developers to break down complex user interfaces into smaller, manageable pieces.
- The UI is described using JSX, a syntax extension that allows developers to write HTML-like code within JavaScript.
- Components are basically JS functions or classes that return a piece of UI. 
Here is an example of a simple React component that renders a greeting message:

```jsx
function Greeting() {
    const name = 'Anna';
    return <h1>Welcome, {name}!</h1>;
}
```

To use the component, you can simply call:
    
```jsx
    <Greeting />
```

> ## Meta frameworks

Reviewer 2: this needs to be removed because meta frameworks were moved to another module

- Meta frameworks, also known as full-stack frameworks, are tools that are build upon existing libraries or frameworks to provide additional features like server-side rendering (SSR), static site generation (SSG), routing, code splitting, and optimized build processes out of the box.

> - In the React ecosystem, Next.js is an example of a meta framework.

Reviewer 4: I'm probably old-fashioned, but isn't a meta framework just a framework?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it seems like meta frameworks are mainly just used in the JS community. But none of the major frameworks like Remix or NextJS call themselves that in their docs. 

So probably the lecture title could be updated to just frameworks. But also this section is being removed because it should be in this particular review page 👍

Here is an example of a simple Next.js page that renders the same greeting message as the previous example:

```jsx
function Greeting() {
    const name = 'Anna';
    return <h1>Welcome, {name}!</h1>;
}

export default Greeting
```

- Meta frameworks can perform server-side rendering. This means that the initial HTML is rendered on the server, which can lead to faster page loads and improved SEO.

> ## CLI tools for project setup

Reviewer 2: This section also needs to be updated to match the script.
The script now focus just on how to setup a react app using vite

Reviewer 3: updated

- To create a new project with Vite, you can use the following command in your terminal:
    
```bash
npm init vite@latest my-react-app -- --template react
```

This command creates a new React project named `my-react-app` using Vite's React template. 

- Vite also provides a dev server to see the changes live on the browser.
- Create React App (CRA), another widely used tool, is an officially supported way to create single-page React applications. To create a new project with CRA, you would use:

```bash
npx create-react-app my-react-app
```

- For Vue.js projects, the Vue CLI is a popular choice. You can start a new Vue project by running:

```bash
npm init vue@latest
```

This command will prompt you with questions about your project setup, allowing you to choose features like TypeScript support, routing, and state management.

- Angular projects can be set up using the Angular CLI. To create a new Angular project, you can run:

```bash
ng new my-angular-app
```

- The Angular CLI will ask you some questions to customize your project setup, such as if you want to include routing and which CSS preprocessor you would like to use.

> ## Dependency management in React

Reviewer 2: This section needs to be removed because that lecture script was moved to another module

Reviewer 3: removed

> ## Dependency management in React

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Dependency management
```
It doesn't seem like there's anything React specific to managing deps.

> - Dependency management refers to the process of handling external code packages that your project relies on. These packages, also known as dependencies, can range from small utility functions to large libraries like React JS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Dependency management refers to the process of handling external code packages that your project relies on. These packages, also known as dependencies, can range from small utility functions to large libraries like React.
```
Nit: I'd just call it React. Also, if we want to call it React JS or whatever, we should introduce the aliases with the thing itself.

Here is an example of a package.json file:

```json
{
    "name": "my-react-app",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "dependencies": {
        "react": "^17.0.2",
        "react-dom": "^17.0.2"
    },
    "devDependencies": {
        "babel": "^7.15.0",
        "webpack": "^5.51.1"
    }
}
```

Dependency management also involves keeping your packages up-to-date. You can check for updates using commands like `npm outdated` and update packages using `npm update`. It's important to be cautious when updating dependencies, especially for major version changes, as these can most of the time break your codebase.

Here are some npm commands that are commonly used for dependency management:

- `npm install`: installs all the dependencies listed in the package.json file.
- `npm install <package-name>`: installs a specific package and adds it to the package.json file.
- `npm update`: updates all the dependencies to their latest versions.

## Passing props in React components

- In React, props (short for properties) are a way to pass data from a parent component to a child component. This mechanism is needed to create reusable and dynamic UI elements.

> - Props can be of these types: strings, numbers, booleans, objects, or arrays. To pass props from a parent to a child component, you add the props as attributes when you use the child component in the parent's JSX. Here's a simple example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Props can be any JavaScript value. To pass props from a parent to a child component, you add the props as attributes when you use the child component in the parent's JSX. Here's a simple example:
```
Maybe include examples, too, but just including examples implies that they're the only allowed values.

```jsx
// Parent component
function Parent() {
    const name = 'Anna';
    return <Child name={name} />;
}

// Child component
function Child(props) {
    return <h1>Hello, {props.name}!</h1>;
}
```

You can pass multiple props using the spread operator `(...)`, after converting them to an object. Here’s an example:
    
```jsx
// Parent component
function Parent() {
    const person = {
        name: 'Anna',
        age: 25,
        city: 'New York'
    };
    return <Child {...person} />;
}
```

In this code, the spread operator `{...person}` converts the person object into individual props that are passed to the Child component.

## Conditional rendering in React

- Conditional rendering in React allows you to create dynamic user interfaces. It is used to show different content based on certain conditions or states within your application.
- There are several ways to conditionally render content in React. One common approach is to use the ternary operator. Here's an example:

```jsx
function Greeting({ isLoggedIn }) {
    return (
        <div>
            {isLoggedIn ? <h1>Welcome back!</h1> : <h1>Please log in</h1>}
        </div>
    );
}
```

> - Another way to conditionally render content is to use the logical AND(`&&`) operator. This is useful when you want to render content only if a certain condition is met. Here's an example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Another way to conditionally render content is to use the logical AND (`&&`) operator. This is useful when you want to render content only if a certain condition is met. Here's an example:
```
